I wondered if it's possible to know that a certain thing exist - just yes or no. Like we know we can't know the value of infinity, in same sense -  if the world hasn't known the name "Lord of the Rings" - could it have known that the story exist? If every copy of it were to be destroyed, the story won't stop existing -- it exists more than we do, like the numbers -- just beyond the conscious record. Devoid of these nouns, what is the realization of that knowledge looks like? When young Richard Feynman figured Newtonian calculus on his own and then discovered that it's already been done -- what was the nature of that nameless knowledge that existed? What happens when this is phenomenon in us... can this subtleness lead us to understanding of more sublime subjects, more subtle tropes? Is this what transcendence is?

With-in bounds of certain probability, I think yes... I mean Heisenberg principle is sound but still. We can consider small bodies a difference universe and our scale a different one... in that case, Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle can be applied easily. Since, we don't know at what speed or acceleration universe is expanding (but we know its expanding), we can be more sure of position of elements and thus with a time-scale calculate relative changes between elements of cosmos of big scale (where the newton laws are effective)… what if knowing the speed changes everything? Its definitely against entropy as it brings more order, what if it collapses the current entropy minima valley further… Heisenberg operates on knowing absolute speed instead of relative one which maybe a side-effect of accelerating (due to which after sometime, the light of galaxies will never reach and they are essentially isolated multi-verse systems connected by laws of thermodynamics)

So, just by knowing can we change the nature of universe on a macro scale?

Tomorrow, we’ll know discover more universe when it’s light will reach us for the first time 
